---
layout: post
title:  "On the Loss of Friends - An Explanation"
tags: blog rant
categories: personal rant
author: JayBee
last-modified: 11/16/2020
hidden: true
---
## It fucking really fucking sucks a lot.
Friend breakups are weird. You know you're supposed to get upset when someone dies, or your romantic partner decides it just isn't working out anymore. But nothing really prepares you for that feeling of a friendship ending.

It's been eating at me in the pit of my stomach for a hot minute now. For maybe 2 months...possibly 3, I've been watching a close friendship end in slow motion. Ostensibly because of a simple breakdown in communication, but I feel it's something else entirely.

I'm not going to go into excruciating detail but I'll lay out the basic facts, step by step,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Background
Some context is needed before I go into it.

My friend is the type of person to want to talk about personal things and emotional problems with their close peers. They also try to get you to really open up to them as well. I should say, in full disclosure, I'm not the best at emotional discussions and usually relate to problems in a more logical point of view. I prefer to slice an issue up into its baser parts and find a solution myself though reasoning it out like some sort of puzzle. I have a bad habit of applying this form of problem solving to other people when they come to me, and it can sometimes cause friction. Remember that fact.

My friend, who shall remain nameless and genderless, is also an artist. Their calling in life is to create and share. That can range from beautiful fanart of major motion pictures, to meticulously thought out runs of merchandise. However the world of art doesn't run on praise and exposure, it requires money. Money that, for this person was mainly made at conventions and online leveraging overseas manufacturers.

Covid brought all of that to a screeching halt.

Their entire world was thrown into disarray almost overnight. Their state was one of the first to have a major outbreak, and as such, if I remember correctly, was one of the first to shutdown. This of course means conventions were out of the question. Well since the virus also originated overseas, there was no guarantees their manufacturers would keep their doors open or keep prices low. Obviously this sort of turmoil can have the nasty side effect of showing someone how little they actually control in their life. People can react to this veil of agency lifting in different ways.

As a final bit of background, we shared a Discord server with some other friends. I can go into the details of that arrangement later, all you need to know for now is that Discord is where a majority of our conversations took place over voice and text.

Also, to reduce in confusion everyone will be referred to as follows:
 - **F**: Breakup Friend
 - **S**: My Close Friend
 - **B**: F's Close Friend
 - **J**: Me

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### A Pandemic...of Lost Mail
As time went on, things got worse. Mental states began to fray. People being locked inside, left to their own devices will start to go a little mad.  
All things considered though **F** held up well...at first. When it was just the pandemic being an issue, there were still some work-arounds to **F**'s issues.
The outbreak had hit **F** hard, but they still had the shipping side of their business and could hold onto that last bit of hope.  
Then Louis DeJoy started talking about his proposed changes.

That was when the true despair started to set in. The light at the end of the tunnel for **F** became more and more dim. Anything you said to try and lift their spirits was met with quick and decisive rebuttal.

I tried. I need to say that here and now. I tried my best to make **F** feel better, to tell them it was temporary and that everyone was in the same boat, to be a good friend. Every single time though, it fell on deaf ears. Or rather, it fell on increasingly hostile ears.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Shot Able - Politics
The first blowup occurred several weeks ago. I'd love to tell you an exact date but due to future events that isn't a possibility.

It all began with **F** commenting in the group Discord something along the lines of "The USPS going down will ruin me". So, even though I was already on eggshells, I offered some words of commiseration and hope. Hope apparently, is some sort of toxic substance to **F**. Because you see, it went from bad to immediately worse. I can't offer the full text of what was said, but essentially, **F** claimed that absolutely nothing could be done and that it was a lost cause. I, being the logical and incredibly politically opinionated person I am, offered an attempt to see that not everything is FUBAR as they seemed to think it was. I put forward the notion that everything the current administration had ruined, could be reverted as the methods of the rat-fucking were in fact barely legally binding.

I then said I was sorry that I wasn't as vocal anymore except for the odd political statement. I explained it was due to me having a new relationship in my life that I was trying to foster.

That was the ostensible trigger. **F** immediately shifted into a shutdown procedure and reverted to nothing but terse statements, one word responses, or flat out refusal to acknowledge my existence. This went on for 2 days before I finally began to realize the full extent of **F**'s anger. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Détente
See in the beginning it was just 3 of us, the Holy Trinity, **J**, **F** and **S**. Relatively recently a 4th was added though, **B**. Making us the Holy Quadrinity.  

**B** is cool, I like **B**, we have a similar sense of humor and get along well, so I don't want there to be any notion that I have ill will towards **B**. It's just important that you know **B** is much closer to **F** than anyone else in the group. 

Anyway, Dead By Daylight was our game, we played it as often as we could as a group. This night however was very, very different.

It clicked when I asked if we as a group could play. After my initial offer to play, I noticed a new voice channel had been created, with **F** and **B** in it. I'm not going to say the name, but suffice to say it was clearly directed at me with a clear warning to stay out. At first I thought it was just a bit of a goof, a way to poke fun at recent events. 

**S** accepted my offer to play and we hopped into the main Voice Chat. We talked about the absurdity of the past few nights and mused about when **F** and **B** would join us. After a game we saw that both **F** and **B** had started to play Dead By Daylight as well. One cohesive group, split down the middle along loyalty lines. 

The awkwardness was palpable.

It was during this game that I decided to reach out to **F**, one on one, for a dialogue to try and clear up any issues they had with me. In discussion with **S**, we came to the conclusion that it would be best to let **F** cool off for another day or so before I did anything though. So I waited.

After about a day or so, I sent **F** a DM on Discord asking if we could talk about things and see if we could hash everything out. **F** accepted and we began the first of our talks.

It was in this discussion that **F** revealed just how deep in despair they truly were. They felt the world was crumbling around them and there was nothing they could do to stop it. **F** also made it abundantly clear that my political statements pissed them off. **F** felt that what I was saying was somehow trying to guilt them into feeling like they hadn't done enough for themselves to avoid this situation. 

False.  
I explained how I was simply trying to say that none of the current issues facing us. 

**F** then made it known how they felt that by my saying how sorry I was for not talking, that made them feel bad for me not checking up on them. Which...I was. I was just doing it in my own personal way. I'm not the type to go to someone and ask about whats bothering them. Honestly after several years of friendship **F** should've known that by now but I digress. In any case, I felt that we eventually got to a mutual understanding and would be able to move on from there. I felt good about how our conversation had went and felt things would be back to a relative sense of normalcy soon enough.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Shot Baker - Hellfire
Silence. Not a peep. The group discord was like a ghost town now. The fallout from the first shot was still being felt. In an attempt to break the ice I would post a meme or some conversation started every once in a while. **S** and **B** would usually respond in some way and it would be friendly, but still awkward. **F** would almost never chime in unless it was **S** or **B** talking. My questions or statements would be outright ignored 99% of the time. 

In private I would ask F how they were and get literal one word answers. Granted, their life was in a massive upheaval, but I was trying dammit. 

There was exactly two "normal" interactions, and they wer so brief you could only really consider them passing small talk. One was about a member of the administration being caught for highly illegal activity, and the other was about them moving back home. That's it. Over the course of maybe a month that was it.

Then the wild fires hit. I'm slightly giving away the geolocation of **F**, but the current wild fires are important to this story. 

**F** and **B** live incredibly close to where the fires would rage and turn the sky a terrifying color. **F** had been making regular updates on Twitter about their safety and what had all been going on, and on more than one post I would make my presence known and wish well. Apparently that was never noticed (I honestly think **F** had muted my twitter account long ago for different reasons, should've been a red flag in retrospect), but on the week of September 13th, 2020, it happened.

I posted in the group Discord, specifically mentioning **F** and **B** to get their attention, that I hope they were doing ok with the fires. I knew they were ok physically, but I just wanted to check in, twitter posts only tell you so much. **B** chimed in a few minutes later to post that they were ok and shared screenshots of the local weather report showing how bad the air quality was. All in all a pleasant conversational experience excluding the disastrous topic matter. Several hours later, **F** responded. It was 4 lines of text. I don't remember the words, but I remember the intent. 

"My life is burning. My career is crumbling. Life is a mess. Go fuck yourself."

I had to read it maybe 4 times before I fully understood it wasn't a joke of some sort. My heart rate exploded and my vision went red. I responded saying something along the lines of "I'm trying **F**, sorry for bothering you. Guess I'll go fuck myself". I then renamed the Discord server channel we had to "#The-Holy-Trinity" and left the server altogether. If that was how **F** would treat me when just checking in, I wanted no part of it anymore. I then changed the tab to a private conversation between **S** and I.

**S** was already typing. Her response was quick and decisive. If that was how **F** was going to treat me for absolutely no reason, then **S** would have no part of **F** either. I advised to wait until I spoke to **F** personally about what the hell just went down, but we both agreed it was incredibly childish and immature.

I message **F**, and we began to talk. I won't go into full detail because private matters were discussed, but I can tell you how it ended.

Not well. **F** and **S** are still on well enough terms though, and of that I'm ok with. I'd rather **F** lose one 1 friend rather than 2.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## End of an Era
I did my best to try and salvage an already broadsided friendship, and **F** said they were willing to move on, but the subtext was there. "You cut me deep, I won't heal anytime soon, I don't want you around." And so here I am. Writing this as a method of letting go of some of the anger and resentment I feel about the entire situation. I could postulate and theorize about what the true root cause of all of this was, because between you and me, a lot of what F provided as explanation make no sense and contradict in retrospect. But I won't because that's not fair to them, it's not healthy for me to dwell on it, and it's not healthy for my other relationships to focus so much on this childish nonsense.

So I won't. This is the last I'll write about the matter. While it might pop into my head now and then, and make me angry about how such a good friendship was destroyed over absolutely nothing, I'll sleep just fine at night. **F** hasn't offered and olive branch yet, I still haven't been invited back to the server. 

I guess that's really that then.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## New Life? 
*Added 10/15/2020*
**F** messaged me on Discord in a DM last night. They asked if I was willing to get a product of theirs I purchased about 2 months ago if it had a slight manufacturing defect. I said yes because it still looked really good even with the slight defect, honestly I think most people wouldn't even notice but he, I've been wrong before. 

Anyway, we talked amicably for some time and it actually felt decent. There wasn't a weird air about the conversation where we both were holding back, it felt natural. 

Hopefully it's a sign of good things to come.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<p id="addendum"></p>

## Fuck It


*Added 11/16/2020*
Ok well I was wrong as per that last update. Shits dead yo. No point in even caring about it anymore. Time to move on and just call it a day.