---
layout: post
title:  "Pi Peep Hole"
tags: blog pi
categories: project
author: JayBee
last-modified:
hidden:
---
## What?
So I've had this idea for a Raspberry Pi powered peep hole camera for some time now. I think the original seed for the idea came when I played the cyberpunk horror game "The Observer" (great game, play it if you can). In the game there are these "reverse peepholes" of sorts that allow you to talk to residents in this apartment block.
<!-- insert pic of Observer peepholes here -->
I'm a sucker for a cyberpunk aesthetic and...damn did I like the way those looked. Obviously an apartment complex wouldn't allow me to add a monitor like that to the outside fo the door, plus it would get stolen, so I had to compromise.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## The Plan
As far as how it would look and work. I began thinking about this before I owned my first Pi. I mean this has been in my head for years. 2017 at the earliest. I can remember drawing up a diagram on the mirror in my apartment bathroom like something out of "A Beautiful Mind". The basic principle is incredibly simple though.

Essentially, I would get a Pi, a Camera to interface with the Pi, and a TV/Monitor to work as the viewscreen, then I would route the cabling around the doorframe in such a way as to be both efficient and aesthetically pleasing. This was supposed to look cyberpunk after all. No hidden cable runs or anything like that. If I could have exposed thick bundles of cable and conduits I would. Trust me I've considered it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## First Iteration
For as much as I've planned this project out, I've only began working on it in earnest this year. In fact, I only REALLY started because I found a perfectly working tv while taking the trash out. 
One persons trash is another persons treasure I guess.

By this point I had an unused PiZero W just sitting in my desk drawer at work also. It was supposed to be used as a digital signage manager but the Screen we got ended up having a built in web browser that was more than adequate.

So I had a free TV and a free Pi, all that was needed was the camera. I tried to find the smallest module I could find at Micro Center, which ended up being the <!-- find the model number for the camera and put it here -->. While at the store I also had to get the adapter to fit the ribbon cable into the Zero, and for shiggles I got a case. The front door to my apartment is downwind from the kitchen and I figured grease flying onto the Pi was a bad idea.

The TV I had dumpster dived for had a curved back plastic casing, so I decided "it'd be way more cyberpunk if I just ripped the case off". So that's what I did. With the case off I noticed the TV was basically 2 sections bolted together. There was the main panel, and all the logic boards and power supplies on a rail system.
<!-- Insert Pics of the TV disassembled -->
I ditched the parts I couldn't or wouldn't use, like the remote IR receiver and bezel pieces to make it look as bare bones as possible. In the End I also trimmed parts of the railing to make the second section more compact.

At this point I realized I'd need to make some sort of housing for the PCBs and PSU otherwise the natural humidity and particles from the kitchen might cause some sort of short, or worse, a fire. Well these aren't exactly ready made, so I set out to make one.

This led to a trip to my local hardware store to get some dark plexiglass and a cutter. This would eventually lead to be the downfall of Iteration 1.

Plexiglass is bullshit to cut. Like seriously, it's ass. Maybe I was doing it wrong or maybe I had bad luck, I don't know. What I do know is, my blood pressure is skyrocketing. The plexiglass would be scored almost perfectly I would go to crack and...nope the crack would spiderweb off or go some other direction. I ended up having a fit of rage and trashing the demon plastic.

I still plan to use the deconstructed TV, but for now I would have to put Iteration 1 on the back burner.
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Second Try
In my deep disappointment at the failure of my first try, my girlfriend advised I should just shelve it until I planned out better and had a more cohesive process lined out. 

No.

So I set out for my second iteration. 

I remembered that at the warehouse for the store I work at, there was an unused old TV just lying in the corner. So I took it. Nobody has noticed yet.

Anyway I took the TV, and instead of taking it apart, I hung it as is, vertically. I didn't use a proper VESA mount though, no I'm too stubborn for that. Instead I decided to use bolts in the mounts to wrap picture wire around and hang the TV like some sort of electronic painting. It kind of works.
<!-- insert pic of the hanging tv -->
As you can see it hangs, but there are some caveats. First is the wire itself. The VESA mount points aren't in the center of the TV, they're offset to better distribute the weight while the TV is mounted normally, this led to the TV wanting to swing to one side. To correct this, I added some screws into the wall to sort of "catch" the TV and hold it in place. I fully expect these to fail and to come home to a broken TV. At least it was free.

Second problem is, the bolts I used rub against the wall and leave nasty silver marks on the paint. Thankfully it washed right off and I used electrical tape to act as a buffer. 

It was mounted though, so now I could begin working on the camera itself.

I mounted the Pi to the door with some electrical tape, since this would be temporary and the tape wouldn't leave any nasty residue or take paint with it. I also ran the cable as best I could to be pleasant to look at, while also short runs. I ended up having to use a few USB extensions for the power supply, because I don't want it battery powered, this sucker had to be on 24/7 otherwise I'd have to let it boot before viewing the person on the other side. That being said though, it looked about as good as it could all things considered. 

Everything was hooked up now and all that had to be done was set up the software and mount the camera. I just used the basic "raspivid -t 0 -w 1080 and -h 1920" commands to make the video feed the proper dimensions on the TV and also do a constant "preview" which in reality was my peephole. It worked pretty damn good, but there was TONS of wasted space on the screen. My girlfriend and I attempted to place the camera module as perfectly as we could in the recess for the peephole, but try as we might it just wouldn't make a decent image. In the end I decided I'd need a custom bracket or lense solution for the camera to work best. When we did get it situated ok enough though, we noticed a HUGE amount of wasted space on the TV, like 50% of the screen was just black. So my girlfriend had the idea to make the video stream only half the screen, while the other half could be something else.

I mulled it over and figured the PiZero could possibly be used to view recipes and such since it hung on a wall that was technically in the kitchen. I suppose it could be a digital painting as well. The browser was slow, partially because my router had a terrible WiFi antenna and partially because the Zero isn't the most powerful, but it could work in the right circumstances. However without the mount for the camera I would have to, yet again, shelve the project. The TV still hangs on the wall though, The holes I made for the catch are super visible and I don't want my apartment management being possibly pissed about what I've done.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Third Iteration(?)
While sitting in the office of my apartment, I absent mindedly noticed an old monitor I salvaged from my deceased grandmothers home that I intended to use as a server display. I realized it was the perfect size, weight and resolution for the Peephole. The only real problem I face right now is how to run the power since its awkwardly placed on the monitor and how to mount it to look as though it's floating without destroying the door and getting dinked on my deposit after I move out.

I'm still working on it, maybe I'll mount it to the side of the door, I'm not sure yet. I still also don't know what to do with the bigger TV already on the wall. Maybe a recipe viewer / digital art display. Anyway I'll come back to this after the new year sometime, after my foot surgery is healed.