---
layout: post
title:  "Hello World!"
tags: blog
author: JayBee
permalink: /first
---

### First Post 
So this is the beginning here. My first post to the site.\
<hr>
Well all things considered, it's deceptively difficult to get a static site up and running. You would think that a site without any form of database or updated elements would be easy right? Well yes and no. At first I was just going to do a simple "Who am I" type of page. A psuedo-portfolio I guess since I don't have anything to show off. Then I decided, "Well I have the option so why not?" and I began the process of making the site use Jekyll. That added a whole new layer of complexity. Granted I got it sorted out in about a day but still, it was something new that I had never done before.\
\
Then we add in the blog aspect. As you can hopefully see I finally got it all working. But quite honestly getting this deal up and running was the hardest part. I don't know why either, it just sort of "was". Funny thing is, it's by fare the most simple part of the entire procedure. It's a template, some basic markdown, and you're off to the races.
\
Anyway. I'll probably be posting here every so often just as a way to keep track of my progress on various projects, rant about various topics, or post creations I've made in some form or another.
\
Pretty cool right?
\
So far my ToDo list has quite a few check marks in it. 
- [x] Create Basic Site Skeleton
- [x] Add Jekyll
- [x] Flesh Out Jekyll Templates
- [x] Test  Posting Locally 
- [x] Publish <samp>Hello World!</samp> Post
- [ ] Fix Link Structure
- [ ] Make Everything Pretty

That last bullet point is going to take a hot minute.